Burnt Ends with Melting Garlic

Process: Involved
Cooking: Beef
Preparation: Long Cook (Over 2 hours)

Serves: 6-8

2 brisket points, with the thin layer of fat still intact, 3 to 4 pounds each

Ingredients
Paste
1⁄2 cup prepared yellow mustard
1⁄4 cup water
1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce

1⁄4 cup garlic salt
1⁄4 cup chili powder
3 tablespoons coarsely ground fresh black pepper
1 tablespoon kosher salt
1 teaspoon cayenne pepper

Seasoning Blend
2 tablespoons garlic salt
11⁄2 tablespoons coarsely ground fresh black pepper
1 tablespoon chili powder
1⁄2 tablespoon lemon pepper
1⁄2 tablespoon kosher salt
1⁄2 teaspoon cayenne pepper
About 1⁄4 cup canola oil

Wrapping Mixture
1⁄2 cup honey
1⁄2 cup firmly packed dark brown sugar
4 tablespoons (2 ounces) unsalted butter or margarine, melted

Finishing Sauce
1 cup APL BBQ Sauce, or your favorite BBQ sauce
11⁄2 teaspoons apple cider vinegar

1 recipe Melting Garlic (optional)
Fleur de sel

Preparation
1. Preheat an indirect barbecue with a drip pan and hardwood (preferably hickory, oak, or pecan), a ceramic cooker with deflector plate and hardwood (preferably hickory, oak, or pecan), or a charcoal or gas grill with a box or packet of hardwood (preferably hickory, oak, or pecan) to 325°F.

2. Combine the paste ingredients and spread on the brisket. Combine all of the seasoning blend ingredients and sprinkle evenly on the brisket. Using your hands or a brush, evenly, but lightly, coat the brisket with canola oil.

Cooking Method
3. Place in the cooker, fat side down, and cook for 21⁄2 hours.

4. Meanwhile, combine the wrapping mixture ingredients.

5. Lay out a double sheet of aluminum foil. Remove the brisket from the cooker, place on the foil, and cover with the wrapping mixture. Securely wrap in the foil. Place back in the cooker and cook for 3 hours.

6. Meanwhile, line a small cooler with a beach towel or other large towels to insulate the inside of the cooler.

7. Remove the brisket from the cooker and carefully unwrap the brisket over a baking dish or disposable pan, reserving the liquid. Lay out a double sheet of aluminum foil and top with the brisket. Strain all of the juices from the pan through a fine- mesh strainer set over a liquid measuring cup. Discard any solids. Allow the fat to come to the top, pour off, and discard. For the enhanced sauce, reserve 1⁄2 cup of the beef liquid. Pour the remaining defatted liquid over the brisket. Securely wrap in the foil, place in a baking dish or disposable pan, and transfer to the cooler. Cover the top with the towels, close the lid, and let rest for 1 hour.

8. Meanwhile, combine the reserved beef liquid, BBQ sauce, and vinegar.

9. Remove the brisket from the cooler, carefully unwrap, and cut into 11⁄2-inch cubes. Coat with some of the sauce, and toss with the Melting Garlic, if using. To keep the garlic from falling through the grates, transfer to a baking dish or disposable pan (if cooking cubes only, they can be cooked directly on the grate). Place back in the cooker for 30 minutes.

10. Toss with the remaining sauce and sprinkle with fleur de sel.